
<h1 class="file_title post_title">Raspberry Pi Cheat Sheet</h1>
<p>List of useful terminal commands. Probably the most important command is <code>man</code> which stands for manual and will give you the full documentation of any installed terminal command. in the terminal type:</p><p></p><pre>$ man cp</pre><p>Quick Note: All examples will be begin with <code>$</code> to symbolize the terminal environment. Don't have to type that part in when you're using them. A line without the symbol is a result.</p><p></p><h3>Terminal Basics</h3><ol><li>↑ and ↓ scrolls through command history for the current user.</li><li>⌥ → and ⌥ ← jump left and right several characters at a time. Useful when fixing a type in a long command.</li><li>ESC  ← deletes right several characters at a time. </li><li> <code>~</code> Symbol denotes the current users home directory. It is an alias to the full path. On my computer <code>/Users/Pi</code> is the same thing as <code>~</code> </li><li>Pressing tab will complete a command or directory (one level at a time). So instead of typing <code>cd ~/Previous\ Documents</code> You could simply start <code>cd ~/Pr</code> and then hit <code>tab</code> to complete the folder name.</li><li>Commands (ie. `mkdir`, etc ) can have many sub commands and options or flags.</li></ol><pre>$ brew install bourbon -v
$ curl --referer "http://www.google.com" -v http://www.Mighty-Pi-Society.github.io</pre><p></p><h3>Directory Navigation</h3><p><code>cd</code> - Navigate to a folder</p><pre>$ cd ~/Desktop
$ cd ../
$ cd /etc/log/nginx</pre><p></p><p><code>ls</code> - List files/folders in current directory</p><pre>$ ls
$ ls -la </pre><p></p><p><code>rm</code> - remove file or folder</p><pre>$ rm untitled.haml
$ rm -rf .DS_Store</pre><p></p><p><code>cp</code> - copy file or folder</p><pre>$ cp this.txt that.txt
$ cp -r ~/pi-society/modules ./backup</pre><p><code>mkdir</code> - make directory</p><pre>$ mkdir pi-society</pre><p><code>pwd</code> - print working directory</p><pre>$ pwd
/Users/Pi</pre><p><code>sudo</code> - run as super user</p><pre>$ sudo rm /pi-society.txt
$ sudo rm -rf /nuclear-destruction/</pre><p><code>vi</code> - vi text editor</p><pre>$ vi pi-society.txt</pre><p><code>tar</code> - compressed file format</p><pre>$ tar czf pi-society.tar.gz pi-society
$ tar xzf plugins.tar.gz</pre><p><code>mv</code> - move a file or folder</p><pre>$ mv pi-society.txt ../
$mv *.php ../</pre><p><code>find</code> - find a file or folder</p><pre>$ find *.php</pre><p><code>tail</code> - watch a file live. typically log files.</p><pre>$ tail -f debug.log</pre><p><code>touch</code> - create a file</p><pre>$ touch README.md</pre><p><code>which</code> - tells you where a command is installed</p><pre>$ which php
/usr/bin/php</pre><p><code>chmod</code> - changes file or folder read/write/execute permissions</p><pre>$ chmod 755 audio
$ chmod -R u+rw pi-society</pre><p><code>ping</code> - tests internet connection to a specific address.</p><pre>$ ping github.com</pre><p><code>man</code> - terminal command manual</p><pre>$ man chmod</pre><p><code>clear</code> - clears the terminal window</p><p><code>exit</code> - exits the terminal, kills the process.</p><p><code>echo</code> - output result to terminal. used mostly in bash scripts.</p><pre>$ foo="test"
$ echo $foo
test</pre><p><code>whoami</code> - returns the current user. good for figuring out if you're in sudo or not.</p><p><code>history</code> - returns a list of the last used commands</p><p><code>ack</code> - search for text in files. prettier than <code>find</code></p><pre>$ ack --php "function "</pre><p><code>openssl</code> - create a self signed ssl certificate. Google this one.</p><p><code>ssh</code> - connect to a system remotely. Good for connecting to your pi from a laptop.</p><pre>$ ssh pi@raspberry.local
$ ssh pi@10.0.1.41</pre><p><code>curl</code> - a tool to transfer data from or to a server. Commonly to get an online resource. Super powerful.</p><pre>$ curl -v http://google.com/
$ curl -v -X POST "https://api.projectoxford.ai/vision/v1.0/analyze?visualFeatures=Categories,Tags,Description,Faces,Color" -H "Ocp-Apim-Subscription-Key: xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx" -d '{"url":"https://mighty-pi-society.github.io/images/logo-mighty-pi-transparent.png"}' -H "Content-Type: application/json"</pre><p><code>wget</code> - The non-interactive network downloader. Used to download resources from the internet.</p><pre>$ wget http://google.com</pre><p></p><h3>Version control</h3><p><code>git</code> - modern version control system, very popular</p><pre>$ git clone git@github.com:alexa/alexa-avs-sample-app.git
$ git clone https://github.com/vinkla/instagram.git</pre><p><code>svn</code> - Linear file based version control system. Still popular.</p><p></p><h3>Package Managers</h3><p>npm</p><p>apt-get</p><p>pip</p><p>gem</p><p></p><h3>Programming Languages</h3><p><code>python</code> - run a python application, typically fles with .py file extension</p><pre>$ python -v
$ python demo.py resources/Snowboy.pmdl</pre><p><code>node</code> - Node.js a JavaScript based server. Node projects typically come with an install.json/package.json file. if it exists you can run <code>node install</code> and npm will download all the dependencies.</p><pre>$ node -v
$ node install
$ node server.js</pre><p><code>php</code> - PHP typically executes files with a .php or .phar file extention.</p><pre>$ php -v
$ php [options] [ -f ] file [[--] args...]</pre><p><code>ruby</code> - Ruby typically executes files with a .rb file extention.</p><pre>$ ruby -v</pre><p><code>bash</code> - Bash typically runs .sh files.</p><pre>$ bash ./install.sh</pre><p></p><h3>Version Management</h3><p>Version management systems allow you to run  different versions of a language on a per project basis. This is common in some languages, specifically Node.js.</p><p><code>rvm</code></p><p><code>nvm</code></p><p></p><p></p><h3>Audio with SOX</h3><p><code>sox</code> - audio swiss army knife. does anything you can think of to audio.</p><pre>$ sox temp.wav --rate 16k --bits 16 --channels 1 temp.flac</pre><p>play and rec are part of sox.</p><p><code>play</code> - lays an audio file</p><pre>$ play temp.flac</pre><p><code>rec</code> - records audio</p><pre>$ rec monologue.wav</pre>
